<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:x="https://www.texmacs.org/2002/extensions" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
  <head>
    <title>Note on Weinberg's textbooks on QFT</title>
    <meta charset="utf-8" content="TeXmacs 2.1.4" name="generator"></meta>
    <style type="text/css">
      body { text-align: justify } h5 { display: inline; padding-right: 1em }
      h6 { display: inline; padding-right: 1em } table { border-collapse:
      collapse } td { padding: 0.2em; vertical-align: baseline } dt { float:
      left; min-width: 1.75em; text-align: right; padding-right: 0.75em;
      font-weight: bold; } dd { margin-left: 2.75em; padding-bottom: 0.25em; }
      dd p { padding-top: 0em; } .subsup { display: inline; vertical-align:
      -0.2em } .subsup td { padding: 0px; text-align: left} .fraction {
      display: inline; vertical-align: -0.8em } .fraction td { padding: 0px;
      text-align: center } .wide { position: relative; margin-left: -0.4em }
      .accent { position: relative; margin-left: -0.4em; top: -0.1em }
      .title-block { width: 100%; text-align: center } .title-block p {
      margin: 0px } .compact-block p { margin-top: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px }
      .left-tab { text-align: left } .center-tab { text-align: center }
      .balloon-anchor { border-bottom: 1px dotted #000000; outline: none;
      cursor: help; position: relative; } .balloon-anchor [hidden] {
      margin-left: -999em; position: absolute; display: none; }
      .balloon-anchor: hover [hidden] { position: absolute; left: 1em; top:
      2em; z-index: 99; margin-left: 0; width: 500px; display: inline-block; }
      .balloon-body { } .ornament { border-width: 1px; border-style: solid;
      border-color: black; display: inline-block; padding: 0.2em; } .right-tab
      { float: right; position: relative; top: -1em; } .no-breaks {
      white-space: nowrap; } .underline { text-decoration: underline; }
      .overline { text-decoration: overline; } .strike-through {
      text-decoration: line-through; } del { text-decoration: line-through
      wavy red; } .fill-out { text-decoration: underline dotted; } math {
      font-family: cmr, times, verdana } 
    </style>
    <link href="../feyn.png" rel="icon"></link>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>
      <a href="../notes.xhtml">GO BACK</a>
    </p>
    <p style="margin-bottom: 25%">
      
    </p>
    <table class="title-block">
      <tr>
        <td><font size="+2"><table class="title-block" style="margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
          <tr>
            <td><font size="+5"><strong><font color="#008080">Note on Weinberg's textbooks
            on QFT</font></strong></font></td>
          </tr>
        </table></font></td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p style="margin-bottom: 15%">
      
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      This note is intended to be a comprehensive and pedagogically structured
      exposition of Steven Weinberg's <em>The Quantum Theory of Fields</em>
      (Volumes I&ndash;III), with a particular emphasis on elaborating the
      later, more condensed sections of the text. While faithfully following
      the logic and organization of Weinberg's original formulation, these
      notes aim to make the material more transparent by supplementing concise
      derivations, clarifying formal constructions, and expanding on advanced
      topics &mdash; especially in the second and third volumes, where the
      presentation becomes highly compressed and assumes significant
      background.
    </p>
    <p>
      Volume I is treated systematically, with attention to the foundational
      structure of relativistic quantum field theory: Lorentz invariance, the
      spin-statistics connection, and the representation theory of the
      Poincar&eacute; group. Volume II receives special emphasis, as the notes
      expand Weinberg's treatment of interacting fields, renormalization, and
      symmetry constraints by providing detailed step-by-step derivations and
      intuitive explanations that are often left implicit in the text. In
      Volume III, where the theory of supersymmetry is introduced with great
      formal elegance, these notes unpack the algebraic constructions and
      superfield formalism with the goal of making the subject accessible
      without sacrificing rigor.
    </p>
    <p>
      Throughout, the objective is not to simplify the material, but to make
      its formal structure more transparent, especially in those sections
      where Weinberg's exposition is terse or assumes expert familiarity.
      These notes are written for mathematically literate readers &mdash;
      particularly graduate students and researchers &mdash; who wish to
      engage deeply with Weinberg's approach, and who seek not just to follow
      the theory, but to truly understand it.
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      <font color="#008080"><strong>Notation.</strong></font> The Latin indices such as
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>i</mi></math>, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>j</mi></math>, <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>k</mi></math>, etc., typically span the three spatial
      coordinate labels, commonly denoted as 1, 2, 3. On the other hand, Greek
      indices like <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>μ</mi></math>, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ν</mi></math>,
      and so forth, usually range over the four spacetime coordinate labels,
      specifically 1, 2, 3, 0, where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math>
      represents the time coordinate. Indices that appear twice are usually
      summed unless specified otherwise. The spacetime metric, denoted by
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      is a diagonal matrix with elements <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>11</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>22</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>33</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>00</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      The d'Alembertian is represented as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>□</mi></math> and
      defined by the equation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>□</mi><mo>≡</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mfrac><mo>∂</mo><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></mrow></mfrac><mfrac><mo>∂</mo><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><msup><mo>∇</mo><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mo>∂</mo><mn>2</mn></msup><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>t</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mfrac></mrow></math>,
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mo>∇</mo><mn>2</mn></msup></math> is the
      Laplacian given by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><msup><mo>∂</mo><mn>2</mn></msup><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>i</mi></msup><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>i</mi></msup></mrow></mfrac></math>.
      The &lsquo; Levi-Civita tensor,&rsquo; symbolized by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>,
      is an entirely antisymmetric entity with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mn>0123</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      Spatial vectors in three dimensions are marked by boldface characters. A
      unit vector corresponding to any vector is shown with a hat, as in <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mover><mi>𝐯</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mo>≡</mo><mi>𝐯</mi><mo>/</mo><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">|</mo><mi>𝐯</mi><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow></mrow></math>. A dot
      over a variable signifies its time derivative. The Dirac matrices <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>γ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> adhere to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>γ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><msub><mi>γ</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>γ</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><msub><mi>γ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>,
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>γ</mi><mn>5</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>γ</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><msub><mi>γ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><msub><mi>γ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>γ</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></math>,
      while <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>β</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msup><mi>γ</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mrow></math>.
      The step function <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>s</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> yields a value of +1 when <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>s</mi><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and 0 when <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>s</mi><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>.
      For a matrix or vector <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math>, the complex
      conjugate, transpose, and Hermitian adjoint are represented by <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>A</mi><mo>∗</mo></msup></math>, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>⊤</mi></msup></math>,
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>A</mi><mrow><mo>∗</mo><mi>⊤</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></math>
      respectively. The Hermitian adjoint of an operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>O</mi></math>
      is marked as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>O</mi><mi>†</mi></msup></math>,
      except when an asterisk emphasizes that a vector or matrix of operators
      is not transposed. Terms like +H.c. or +c.c. appended to equations
      indicate the addition of the Hermitian adjoint or complex conjugate of
      preceding terms. A Dirac spinor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>u</mi></math> with a
      bar over it is defined as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mover><mi>u</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>u</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mi>β</mi></mrow></math>.
      Apart from in Chapter <a href="#Chap:1">?</a>, units are normalized such that
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℏ</mi></math> and the speed of light are set to one.
      The fine structure constant is represented as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>α</mi></math>,
      calculated as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>/</mo><mn>4</mn><mi>π</mi></mrow></math>,
      approximately <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>/</mo><mn>137</mn></mrow></math>,
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>e</mi></mrow></math> is the
      rationalized charge of the electron. Parenthetical numbers next to
      quoted numerical figures signify the uncertainty in the last digits.
      Unless otherwise stated, experimental data is sourced from &lsquo;Review
      of Particle Properties,&rsquo; Phys. Rev. D50, 1173 (1994).
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h1 id="auto-1"><a id="Chap:2"></a>Chapter 1<br />Relativistic Quantum
    Mechanics</h1></font>
    <p>
      The perspective presented argues that quantum field theory exists in its
      current form due to its unique capability to harmonize quantum mechanics
      with special relativity, under some conditions. Our initial endeavor is
      to explore how symmetries, such as Lorentz invariance, manifest within a
      quantum context in the following aspects.
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mstyle mathcolor="black"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-2">1.1<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Quantum Mechanics<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      <a id="Sec:2.1"></a>
    </p>
    <p>
      Quantum field theory rests on the same foundational quantum mechanics
      developed by Schr&ouml;dinger, Heisenberg, Pauli, Born, and other
      pioneers in 1925&ndash;1926. 
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
          Physical states are represented by rays in complex Hilbert space
          (the inner product is denoted be <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>⋅</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>⋅</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math> with the first slot antilinear
          (conjugate-linear) and the second slot linear). Here, a  <i>ray</i>
          is a set of normalized vectors (i.e. <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>)
          with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Ψ</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></math>
          belonging to the same ray if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mi>ξ</mi><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></math>,
          where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ξ</mi></math> is an arbitrary complex number
          with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>ξ</mi><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Observables are represented by Hermitian operators. A state
          represented by a ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math> has a definite
          value <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>α</mi></math> for the observable represented
          by an operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math> if vectors <math
          xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Ψ</mi></math> belonging to this ray are eigenvectors of
          <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math> with eigenvalue <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>α</mi></math>:
        </p>
        <center>
          <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>A</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>α</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mtext>for
          &#xA0;</mtext></mrow><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; in
          &#xA0;</mtext></mrow><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
        </center>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          If a system is in a state represented by a ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math>,
          and an experiment is done to test whether it is in any one of the
          different states represented by mutually orthogonal rays <math
          xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>…</mi></mrow></math>
          (for instance, by measuring one or more observables) then the
          probability of finding it in the state represented by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
          is
        </p>
        <center>
          <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>P</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>ℛ</mi><mo>→</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
        </center>
        <p>
          where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Ψ</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
          are any vectors belongs to rays <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math> and
          <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>,
          respectively.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-3">1.2<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Symmetries<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      <a id="Sec:2.2"></a>
    </p>
    <p>
      A symmetry transformation can be thought of as a shift in perspective
      that does not affect the outcomes of potential experiments. If an
      observer <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>O</mi></math> perceives a system in a state
      denoted by a ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math> or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></math><span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span
      style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>, a
      corresponding observer <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>O</mi><mi>′</mi></mrow></math>
      scrutinizing the same system would view it in a different state,
      symbolized by a ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math><span
      style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>.<span style="margin-left: 0.16665em"></span>,
      respectively. However, both observers must ascertain the same
      probabilities:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>P</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>ℛ</mi><mo>→</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>P</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>→</mo><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This condition is necessary but <i>not sufficient</i> for a ray
      transformation to qualify as a symmetry; additional conditions will be
      elaborated upon in the following chapter. Wigner proved a significant
      theorem in the early 1930s, stating that for any such transformation
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ℛ</mi><mo>→</mo><msup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></math>,
      an operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> can be defined in the Hilbert
      space. If <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Ψ</mi></math> is a vector in ray <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math>, then <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></math>
      belongs to ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></math>.
      The operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> can either be unitary and
      linear:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>U</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>U</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.2)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>ξ</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>η</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>ξ</mi><mi>U</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>η</mi><mi>U</mi><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.3)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      or antiunitary and antilinear:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>U</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>U</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>∗</mo></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.4)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>ξ</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>η</mi><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>ξ</mi><mo>∗</mo></msup><mi>U</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mo>∗</mo></msup><mi>U</mi><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.5)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      for all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></math>
      in the Hilbert space.
    </p>
    <p>
      This finding is called the fundamental theorem of Wigner and the proof
      is the following:
    </p>
    <p style="margin-top: 1em">
      <strong>The fundamental theorem of Wigner (1931). </strong><i><em><p>
        Let <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>H</mi></math> be a Hilbert space and let
      </p><center>
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>ℛ</mi><mover><mo>⟼</mo><mi>T</mi></mover><msup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mstyle></math>
      </center><p>
        be a bijection satisying
      </p></em></i>
    </p>
    <p>
      <i><center>
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>1</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo>,</mo><msubsup><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>2</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
      </center></i>
    </p>
    <p style="margin-bottom: 1em">
      <i><em><p>
        for all rays <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></math>
        and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></math>; and
        vectors  <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>∈</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></math>,
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>1</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo>∈</mo><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>,
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>∈</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></mrow></math>,
        and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Ψ</mi><mn>2</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo>∈</mo><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn><mi>'</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
        Then there exists an operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> acting on
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>H</mi></math> such that
      </p><center>
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>∈</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>ℛ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
      </center><p>
        for all ray <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ℛ</mi></math> and all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>∈</mo><mi>ℛ</mi></mrow></math>;
        and that either <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> is unitary and linear
        or antiunitary and antilinear.
      </p></em></i>
    </p>
    <p style="margin-top: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em">
      <strong>Proof. </strong><span style="margin-left: 1em"></span><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>□</mi></math>
    </p>
    <p>
      As previously stated, the adjoint of a linear operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>L</mi></math>
      is determined by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>≡</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.6)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This definition does not apply to an antilinear operator since the
      right-hand side of (<a href="#2.2.6">1.2.6</a>) would be linear in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Φ</mi></math>,
      while the left-hand side is antilinear in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Φ</mi></math>.
      For an antilinear operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math>, the adjoint
      is instead specified as:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>≡</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>A</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>∗</mo></msup><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>A</mi><mi>Φ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.7)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Given this definition, the criteria for either unitarity or
      antiunitarity can both be expressed as:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.8)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      There exists a trivial symmetry transformation &#x211B;&rarr;&#x211B;,
      represented by the identity operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      This operator is naturally unitary and linear. Continuity dictates that
      any symmetry operation (like a rotation, translation, or Lorentz
      transformation) that can be reduced to a trivial transformation by
      continuously adjusting certain parameters (such as angles, distances, or
      velocities) must be characterized by a linear unitary operator <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math>, as opposed to one that is antilinear and
      antiunitary. (Symmetries represented by antiunitary antilinear operators
      are less common in physics; they all entail a reversal in the direction
      of time flow. See Section <a href="#Sec:2.6">?</a> for more details.)
    </p>
    <p>
      Specifically, a symmetry transformation that is nearly trivial on an
      infinitesimal scale can be depicted by a linear unitary operator that is
      infinitesimally close to the identity operator:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>t</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.9)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math> is a real infinitesimal. For <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> to be both unitary and linear, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>t</mi></math>
      needs to be Hermitian and linear, making it a potential observable. In
      fact, many (if not all) physical observables, like angular momentum or
      momentum, are derived from symmetry transformations in this manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      The set of symmetry transformations possesses specific characteristics
      that categorize it as a group. If <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></math>
      is a transformation converting rays <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
      to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>,
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></math> is another
      transformation that maps <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>
      to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msubsup></math>,
      then the outcome of executing both transformations consecutively is yet
      another symmetry transformation, denoted as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></math>,
      that transforms <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
      into <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msubsup></math>.
      Additionally, any symmetry transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>T</mi></math>
      that changes <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
      into <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>
      has an inverse, expressed as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup></math>,
      which reverts <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>
      back to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>.
      Moreover, there exists an identity transformation, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      which leaves rays unaltered.
    </p>
    <p>
      The unitary or antiunitary operators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>T</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      that correspond to these symmetry transformations emulate this group
      structure, albeit with added complexity because <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> operators
      act on vectors in Hilbert space instead of on rays. If <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></math>
      transforms <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math> into
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>,
      then applying <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> to a vector <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math>
      in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></math> must result
      in a vector <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></mrow></math> in
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mi>'</mi></msubsup></math>.
      If <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></math> then maps this
      ray to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msubsup></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></mrow></math> must
      also belong to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ℛ</mi><mi>n</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msubsup></math>,
      as must <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub></mrow></math>.
      Therefore, the vectors can only differ by a phase factor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, as given by:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.10)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Moreover, barring a notable exception, the linearity (or antilinearity)
      of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> specifies that these phases are
      state-independent. To prove this, let us consider two non-proportional
      vectors <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub></math> and <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></math> and apply Equation (<a
      href="#2.2.10">1.2.10</a>) to the state:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>B</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub></mrow></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></mrow></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.11)</class><a id="2.2.11"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      Every unitary or antiunitary operator has an inverse (its adjoint),
      which is also either unitary or antiunitary. Upon left-multiplying
      Equation (<a href="#2.2.11">1.2.11</a>) by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, we arrive at:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mo>±</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>B</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mo>±</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mo>±</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.12)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      As <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub></math> and <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></math> are linearly
      independent, it follows that
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>B</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϕ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.13)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Consequently, the phase in Equation (<a href="#2.2.10">1.2.10</a>) is
      state-independent, leading to the operator relation:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.14)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      When <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϕ</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      this indicates that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> constitutes a representation of the
      group of symmetry transformations. For arbitrary phases <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, we refer to it as a &lsquo;projective
      representation&rsquo; or a representation &lsquo;up to a phase&rsquo;.
      Whether the Lie group structure allows for state vectors to furnish an
      ordinary or projective representation can not be inferred from the group
      structure alone but will become apparent later.
    </p>
    <p>
      The exception to the reasoning that concluded in Equation (<a href="#2.2.14">1.2.14</a>)
      lies in the possibility that the system may not be preparable in a state
      represented by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>A</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>B</mi></msub></mrow></math>.
      For example, it is generally considered unfeasible to prepare a system
      in a superposition of states with total angular momenta that are
      integers and half-integers. In such scenarios, we refer to the presence
      of a &lsquo;superselection rule&rsquo; between different categories of
      states. As a result, the phases <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϕ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> could be contingent on which class of
      states the operators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>T</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> are acting upon. Further details about
      these phases and projective representations will be discussed in Section
      <a href="#Sec:2.7">?</a>. It will be shown that any symmetry group featuring
      projective representations can be extended (without altering its
      physical meaning) to allow for all its representations to be
      non-projective, i.e., with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϕ</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>.
      Until we reach Section <a href="#Sec:2.7">?</a>, we will proceed with the
      assumption that such an extension has been applied, and will take <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϕ</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math> in (<a href="#2.2.14">1.2.14</a>).
      Also, the existence of spinor is partially derived from the phase
      ambiguity that arises when taking absolute values and the fact that the
      homotopy class of the homogeneous Lorentz group.
    </p>
    <p>
      In physics, a specific type of group known as a connected Lie group
      holds special significance. These are groups comprised of
      transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, defined by a finite collection of
      real, continuous parameters, symbolized as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math>.
      Each group element is linked to the identity element through a
      continuous path within the group itself. The multiplication rule for the
      group is expressed as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.15)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is a function of both <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>θ</mi></math>. If <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      denotes the coordinates of the identity, then
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.16)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      must hold true. In the case of such continuous groups, the
      transformations must be represented in the physical Hilbert space by
      unitary operators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>,
      rather than antiunitary ones. These unitary operators, at least in a
      finite vicinity of the identity, can be expressed by a power series as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>b</mi></msup><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.17)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>c</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>,
      and so on, are Hermitian operators independent of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>θ</mi></math>.
      Assuming that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      provides a standard (non-projective) representation of the
      transformation group, meaning
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.18)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      we can expand this in terms of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi></msup></math>.
      In accordance with Equation (<a href="#2.2.16">1.2.16</a>), the second-order
      expansion of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> should be
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>b</mi></msup><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.19)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup></math>
      are real coefficients. Note that the presence of any <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mn>2</mn></msup></math>
      terms would be in conflict with Equation (<a href="#2.2.16">1.2.16</a>).
      Following this, Equation (<a href="#2.2.18">1.2.18</a>) can be articulated as:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>b</mi></msup><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>c</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>×</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>b</mi></msup><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>b</mi></msup><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>b</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>b</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>c</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.2.20)</class><a id="2.2.20"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      On both sides of Equation (<a href="#2.2.20">1.2.20</a>), terms of order 1, <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>θ</mi></math>, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></math>, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mn>2</mn></msup></math>
      correspond without issue. However, when focusing on the <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>θ</mi></mrow></math>
      terms, a non-trivial condition emerges:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>b</mi></msub><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>c</mi></msub><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.21)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This reveals that if we know the group structure, specifically the
      function <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> and its corresponding quadratic
      coefficient <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup></math>,
      we can determine the second-order terms of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> using the first-order generators <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub></math>. However, there's a
      requirement for consistency: the operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>t</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      has to be symmetric in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>b</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>c</mi></math>,
      as it's the second derivative of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> with respect to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>b</mi></msup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>c</mi></msup></math>. Therefore,
      Equation (<a href="#2.2.21">1.2.21</a>) necessitates that
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>b</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>c</mi></msub><mo
        form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msubsup><mi>C</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.22)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>C</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup></math>
      are a set of real constants termed as structure constants, defined by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>C</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><mo>≡</mo><mo>-</mo><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>c</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.23)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This kind of commutation relationship is termed a Lie algebra. In a
      later section, we will essentially demonstrate that this commutation
      relation (<a href="#2.2.22">1.2.22</a>) is the sole condition needed to
      perpetuate this computation. In other words, the complete power series
      for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      can be generated from an endless chain of equations like Equation (<a
      href="#2.2.21">1.2.21</a>), as long as we are aware of the first-order terms,
      namely the generators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub></math>.
      While this does not mean <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      operators are uniquely identified for all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math>
      based solely on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub></math>,
      it does signify that they are uniquely specified within a finite
      vicinity of the identity coordinate <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      such that Equation (<a href="#2.2.15">1.2.15</a>) holds true if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> lie within this region. The discussion
      about extending this to all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math>
      will take place in a subsequent section.
    </p>
    <p>
      There is a particular scenario of considerable relevance that will recur
      frequently in our discussions. Assume the function <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is simply additive for some or all of
      the coordinates <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math>,
      as expressed by:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>f</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>θ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.24)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This situation is applicable, for example, in the context of spacetime
      translations or for rotations about a single fixed axis (but not for
      both simultaneously). In this special case, the coefficients <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>c</mi></mrow><mi>a</mi></msubsup></math>
      from Equation (<a href="#2.2.19">1.2.19</a>) become zero, and likewise, the
      structure constants in Equation (<a href="#2.2.23">1.2.23</a>) also vanish.
      Consequently, the generators are commutative, denoted by:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>b</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>c</mi></msub><mo
        form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.25)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Such a group is termed as Abelian. Under these conditions, computing
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      for all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup></math> becomes
      straightforward. According to Equations (<a href="#2.2.18">1.2.18</a>) and (<a
      href="#2.2.24">1.2.24</a>), for any integer <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>N</mi></math>, we
      can express:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">[</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mi>θ</mi><mi>N</mi></mfrac><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mi>N</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      By taking the limit as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>N</mi></math> approaches
      infinity and retaining only the first-order term in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>/</mo><mi>N</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, we obtain:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>lim</mo><mrow><mi>N</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>∞</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">[</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mi>i</mi><mi>N</mi></mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><mo
      form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mi>N</mi></msup></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      and consequently,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msub><mi>t</mi><mi>a</mi></msub><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>a</mi></msup><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.2.26)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-4">1.3<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Quantum Lorentz
    Transformations<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      <a id="Sec:2.3"></a>
    </p>
    <p>
      Einstein's principle of relativity asserts the equivalence of specific
      'inertial' frames of reference, setting it apart from the Galilean
      principle of relativity adhered to by Newtonian mechanics. The
      distinction comes from the transformation equations that link coordinate
      systems across different inertial frames. Given that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>
      represents the coordinates in one inertial frame&mdash;where <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>1</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow></math>
      are Cartesian spatial coordinates and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mi>t</mi></mrow></math>
      is a time coordinate (assuming the speed of light equals one)&mdash;the
      coordinates <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>′</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      in another inertial frame must satisfy:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      or, alternatively,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></mrow></mfrac><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>σ</mi></msup></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.2)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      In these equations, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is a diagonal matrix with elements defined as:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>11</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>22</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>33</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mn>00</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.3)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      The summation convention applies: any index like <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>μ</mi></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ν</mi></math> in Equation (<a href="#2.3.2">1.3.2</a>)
      appearing twice, once as a superscript and once as a subscript, is
      summed over.
    </p>
    <p>
      These transformations have the unique feature that the speed of light
      remains consistent&mdash;in our chosen units, equal to one&mdash;across
      all inertial frames. A light wave with unit speed satisfies <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">|</mo><mi>d</mi><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>/</mo><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>t</mi><mo
      form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>, or in terms of
      the equation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mi>d</mi><msup><mi>𝐱</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>t</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      which also implies <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and thus <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>𝐱</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>/</mo><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>t</mi><mo
      form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Any coordinate transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>→</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>′</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></math>
      fulfilling Eq. (<a href="#2.3.2">1.3.2</a>) is linear, as denoted by:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.4)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> are
      arbitrary constants, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      is a constant matrix that meets the criteria:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>ν</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.5)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      For certain applications, it's advantageous to express the Lorentz
      transformation condition using an alternate formulation. The matrix
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      possesses an inverse, designated as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></math>,
      which coincidentally has the same diagonal components: <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>η</mi><mn>00</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>η</mi><mn>11</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mn>22</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mn>33</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      By judiciously inserting parentheses and multiplying Eq. (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>)
      by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>τ</mi></mrow></msup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>τ</mi></mrow><mi>κ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math>,
      we get:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>ν</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>τ</mi></mrow><mi>κ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>τ</mi></mrow></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>κ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>κ</mi></mrow></msup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Further multiplying by the inverse of the matrix <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math>
      yields:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>ν</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>τ</mi></mrow><mi>κ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>τ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>κ</mi></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.6)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      These transformations constitute a group. When we initially apply a
      Lorentz transformation as per Eq. (<a href="#2.3.4">1.3.4</a>), and then follow
      it with another Lorentz transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>′</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>→</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>′</mi><mi>′</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></math>,
      such that
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      we find that the overall transformation effect is identical to
      performing a Lorentz transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>→</mo><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>′</mi><mi>′</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></math>
      as described by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.7)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, it's worth noting that if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      both meet the conditions of Eq. (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>), <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math>
      will also be a Lorentz transformation. The bar notation is simply used
      to distinguish one Lorentz transformation from another. Correspondingly,
      the transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> on physical states obey the
      composition law
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi><mo>+</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.8)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Calculating the determinant of Eq. (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>), we arrive at
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Det</mi><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.9)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This implies that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      has an inverse, denoted as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>ν</mi></msubsup></math>,
      which as per Eq. (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>) takes the form
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>ρ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ν</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msubsup><mo>≡</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.10)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      According to Eq. (<a href="#2.3.8">1.3.8</a>), the inverse of the transformation
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> turns out to be <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, and naturally, the identity
      transformation is represented by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Based on the dialogue in the prior section, the transformations <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> give rise to a unitary linear
      transformation acting on vectors in the physical Hilbert space,
      represented as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Ψ</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Ψ</mi></mrow></math>.
      These operators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>U</mi></math> obey a composition law
      articulated as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>a</mi><mo>+</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.11)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      It's worth noting that to prevent the emergence of a phase factor on the
      right-hand side of Eq. (<a href="#2.3.11">1.3.11</a>), it's generally required to
      extend the Lorentz group. The suitable extension for accomplishing this
      is discussed in Section <a href="#Sec:2.7">?</a>.
    </p>
    <p>
      The complete set of transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      is formally referred to as the inhomogeneous Lorentz group, also known
      as the Poincar&eacute; group. This group has several significant
      subgroups. First, transformations with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      naturally constitute a subgroup, described by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.12)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      which is termed the homogeneous Lorentz group. Additionally, from Eq.
      (<a href="#2.3.9">1.3.9</a>), it's evident that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi></mrow></math>
      can be either <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math> or
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>; transformations
      having <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      inherently make up a subgroup of either the homogeneous or inhomogeneous
      Lorentz groups. Further scrutiny of the 00-components of Eqs. (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>)
      and (<a href="#2.3.6">1.3.6</a>) yields
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mi>i</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mi>i</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>i</mi></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>i</mi></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.13)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>i</mi></math> ranges over 1, 2, and 3. This shows
      that either <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≥</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≤</mo><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      Transformations where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≥</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      constitute a subgroup. Observe that if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math> and <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math> are two
      such matrices <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Λ</mi></math>, then
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>1</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>1</mn></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>2</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>2</mn></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>3</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>3</mn></msubsup><mo>;</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      According to Eq. (<a href="#2.3.13">1.3.13</a>), the three-vector <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>1</mn></msubsup><mo>,</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>2</mn></msubsup><mo>,</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>3</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math>
      has a length of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt></math>,
      and similarly, the three-vector <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>1</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>,</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>2</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>,</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>3</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math>
      has a length of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt></math>.
      Therefore, the scalar product of these two three-vectors has an upper
      limit given by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">|</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>1</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>1</mn></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>2</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>2</mn></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>3</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>3</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>≤</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.14)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      leading to
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≥</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>-</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt><msqrt><mrow><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mover><mi>Λ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt><mo>≥</mo><mn>1</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      This subgroup, characterized by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≥</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      is identified as the proper orthochronous Lorentz group. As one cannot
      smoothly transition from <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      or from <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≥</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>≤</mo><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      any Lorentz transformation derived from the identity through a
      continuous variation of parameters must share the same sign for <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>Det</mtext><mi>Λ</mi></mrow></math> and <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup></math> as the
      identity, and thus must be a member of the proper orthochronous Lorentz
      group.
    </p>
    <p>
      Every Lorentz transformation falls into one of two categories: it is
      either proper and orthochronous, or it can be expressed as the
      composition of an element from the proper orthochronous Lorentz group
      and one of the discrete transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝒫</mi></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝒯</mi></math> or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝒫</mi><mi>𝒯</mi></mrow></math>.
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝒫</mi></math> represents the space inversion,
      which has non-zero elements given by
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>𝒫</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext></mrow><msubsup><mi>𝒫</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>1</mn></mrow><mn>1</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>𝒫</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>2</mn></mrow><mn>2</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>𝒫</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>3</mn></mrow><mn>3</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.15)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      while <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝒯</mi></math> stands for the time-reversal
      matrix, with non-zero elements defined as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>𝒯</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn><mi>.</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext></mrow><msubsup><mi>𝒯</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;   
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>1</mn></mrow><mn>1</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>𝒯</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>2</mn></mrow><mn>2</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>𝒯</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mn>3</mn></mrow><mn>3</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.3.16)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Therefore, a comprehensive understanding of the entire Lorentz group can
      be achieved by studying its proper orthochronous subgroup, along with
      the concepts of space inversion and time-reversal. The exploration of
      space inversion and time-reversal will be carried out separately in
      Section <a href="#Sec:2.6">?</a>. Until that point, our focus will remain on
      either the homogeneous or inhomogeneous proper orthochronous Lorentz
      group.
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-5">1.4<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>The Poincar&eacute;
    Algebra<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      <a id="Sec:2.4"></a>
    </p>
    <p>
      As discussed in Section <a href="#Sec:2.2">1.2</a>, many essential attributes of
      any Lie symmetry group are encapsulated in the properties of the
      elements in the vicinity of the identity element. In the context of the
      inhomogeneous Lorentz group, the identity transformation is given by
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math> and
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>.
      Therefore, we aim to explore transformations that can be written as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>,</mo><mrow><mrow><mtext>1em</mtext></mrow></mrow><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where both <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math> and <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> are infinitesimal. The
      Lorentz condition, expressed as equation (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>), can be
      rewritten as
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>v</mi></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mi>v</mi></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>ω</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      In this book, we adopt the convention that indices can be raised or
      lowered by contracting with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></math>:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>≡</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>≡</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      If we retain only the first-order terms in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ω</mi><mi>ω</mi></mrow></math>
      in the Lorentz condition (<a href="#2.3.5">1.3.5</a>), we find that this
      condition simplifies to the antisymmetry of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.2)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      An antisymmetric second-rank tensor in four dimensions has <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>×</mo><mn>3</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>6</mn></mrow></math>
      independent components. Coupled with the four components of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>,
      an inhomogeneous Lorentz transformation is thus characterized by <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>6</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>=</mo><mn>10</mn></mrow></math>
      parameters.
    </p>
    <p>
      Because <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      maps any ray onto itself, it must be proportional to the unit operator,
      and by a choice of phase may be made equal to it. Excluding the presence
      of superselection rules, we can eliminate the chance that this
      proportionality factor varies depending on the state acted upon by <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
      This exclusion follows the same logic we applied in Section <a href="#Sec:2.2">1.2</a>
      to dismiss the idea that phases in projective representations of
      symmetry groups might depend on the states they act upon. In cases where
      superselection rules are relevant, it could be necessary to adjust the
      phase factors of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      depending on the sector it acts on.
    </p>
    <p>
      For an infinitesimal Lorentz transformation as described by equation (<a
      href="#2.4.1">1.4.1</a>), <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo>,</mo><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      must be equal to the unit operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝟏</mi></math>
      augmented by terms that are linear in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub></math>. We express
      this relationship as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.3)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      In this equation, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></math> are operators
      that are independent of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ω</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math>,
      and the ellipsis signifies terms of higher order in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ω</mi></math>
      and/or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math>. For <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo>,</mo><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      to be unitary, operators <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></math> must be
      Hermitian:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi><mi>†</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mrow><mrow><mtext>1em</mtext></mrow></mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>†</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.4)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      (Yes, the generators of boosts are observables.) Given that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is antisymmetric, its coefficient <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      can also be taken to be antisymmetric:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.5)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      As we will elaborate on later, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>1</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></math>,
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></math> are the
      components of the momentum operators; <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>23</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>31</mn></msup></mrow></math>,
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>12</mn></msup></math> are the
      angular momentum vector components; and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math>
      is the energy operator or Hamiltonian. These identifications of
      angular-momentum generators are necessitated by the commutation
      relations of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></math>.
      However, the commutation relations don't prescribe a definite sign for
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></mrow></math>,
      making the sign choice for the <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></mrow></math>
      term in equation (<a href="#2.4.3">1.4.3</a>) a matter of convention. The
      alignment of this choice with the standard definition of the Hamiltonian
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math> will be clarified
      in Section <a href="#Sec:3.1">?</a>.
    </p>
    <p>
      We turn our attention to the Lorentz transformation characteristics of
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></math>. We focus on
      the composite expression
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> are
      parameters of a new transformation, distinct from <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ω</mi></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math>. According to Equation (<a href="#2.3.11">1.3.11</a>),
      the operation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> results in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>,
      signifying that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>a</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> serves as the inverse of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
      Consequently, from (<a href="#2.3.11">1.3.11</a>), we obtain:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ω</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ω</mi><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>a</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.6)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      To the first order in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ω</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math>,
      this leads to:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ω</mi><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ω</mi><msup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mi>a</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.7)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      By matching the coefficients of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub></math> on both
      sides of the equation and employing (<a href="#2.3.10">1.3.10</a>), we arrive at:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>μ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msubsup><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ν</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.8)</class><a id="2.4.8"></a></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>μ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.9)</class><a id="2.4.9"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      In the case of homogeneous Lorentz transformations where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      these transformation laws simply indicate that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      behaves as a tensor and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>
      as a vector. For pure translations, where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math>,
      these rules convey that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup></math>
      remains invariant under translation, while <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      does not. Specifically, the alteration in the spatial components of
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup></math>
      due to a spatial translation corresponds to the conventional change in
      angular momentum when the point of reference for measuring angular
      momentum is shifted.
    </p>
    <p>
      Next, we consider the application of rules (<a href="#2.4.8">1.4.8</a>) and (<a
      href="#2.4.9">1.4.9</a>) to an infinitesimal transformation. Specifically, we
      take <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></mrow></math>,
      where the infinitesimals <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> are not
      related to the earlier <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ω</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math>.
      Utilizing Equation (<a href="#2.4.3">1.4.3</a>) and retaining only first-order
      terms in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mrow></mrow><mrow><mtext>screen</mtext><mrow><mrow><mstyle
      mathcolor="#A0A0FF"><mtext>-</mtext></mstyle><mtext>-0.3em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext><mtext>0em</mtext><mtext></mtext></mrow></mrow></mrow><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>, Equations
      (<a href="#2.4.8">1.4.8</a>) and (<a href="#2.4.9">1.4.9</a>) simplify to:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mi>μ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mi>ν</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>σ</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>σ</mi></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.10)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>ω</mi><mi>μ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.11)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      By isolating the coefficients of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ω</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> on both
      sides of these equations, we derive the commutation relations:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>σ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.12)</class><a id="2.4.12"></a></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>σ</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.13)</class><a id="2.4.13"></a></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.14)</class><a id="2.4.14"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      These equations define the Lie algebra of the Poincar&eacute; group.
    </p>
    <p>
      In quantum mechanics, particular importance is given to those operators
      that are conserved, meaning they commute with the energy operator <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>H</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mrow></math>.
      A review of Equations (<a href="#2.4.13">1.4.13</a>) and (<a href="#2.4.14">1.4.14</a>)
      reveals that these conserved operators include the momentum three-vector
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>𝐏</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">{</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>1</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mo
        form="postfix">}</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.15)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      and the angular-momentum three-vector
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>𝐉</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">{</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>23</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>31</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>12</mn></msup><mo
        form="postfix">}</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.16)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      as well as the energy <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math>
      itself. The other generators constitute what is termed the 'boost'
      three-vector
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>𝐊</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">{</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>10</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>20</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>30</mn></msup><mo
        form="postfix">}</mo></mrow><mo>?</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">{</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">}</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.17)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      These are not conserved, which is why their eigenvalues are not employed
      to characterize physical states. Expressed in a three-dimensional
      notation, the commutation relations (<a href="#2.4.12">1.4.12</a>), (<a href="#2.4.13">1.4.13</a>),
      and (<a href="#2.4.14">1.4.14</a>) can be represented as:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.18)</class><a id="2.4.18"></a></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.19)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.20)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.21)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>H</mi><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.22)</class><a id="2.4.22"></a></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>H</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>H</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><mi>H</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>H</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.23)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>H</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.4.24)</class><a id="2.4.24"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>…</mi></mrow></math>
      take the values 1, 2, and 3, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is the completely antisymmetric quantity where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mn>123</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      The commutation relation (<a href="#2.4.18">1.4.18</a>) is identified as
      belonging to the angular-momentum operator.
    </p>
    <p>
      Let us prove (<a href="#2.4.22">1.4.22</a>) and (<a href="#2.4.24">1.4.24</a>). From <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>H</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mrow></math>,
      (<a href="#2.4.13">1.4.13</a>), (<a href="#2.4.15">1.4.15</a>), and (<a href="#2.4.17">1.4.17</a>),
      we have
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mn>0</mn></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>i</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>j</mi><mn>0</mn></mrow></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi></mrow></msub><mi>H</mi><mo>⟹</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mn>0</mn></mrow></msup><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mrow><mn>0</mn><mi>i</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>η</mi><mn>00</mn></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msup><mo>⟹</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>H</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      The subgroup of pure translations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      is a part of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group, and its group
      multiplication rule, as defined by (<a href="#2.3.7">1.3.7</a>), is
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>T</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mover><mi>a</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo>+</mo><mi>a</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.25)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This multiplication rule is additive, similar to what is described in
      Equation (<a href="#2.2.24">1.2.24</a>). Employing Equation (<a href="#2.4.3">1.4.3</a>)
      and revisiting the arguments that led to Equation (<a href="#2.2.26">1.2.26</a>),
      we determine that finite translations in the physical Hilbert space are
      represented as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.26)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Likewise, a rotation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>R</mi><mi>𝜽</mi></msub></math>
      through an angle <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>𝜽</mi><mo
      form="postfix">|</mo></mrow></math> around the direction specified by <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝜽</mi></math> is represented in the physical Hilbert space
      as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>R</mi><mi>𝜽</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>𝐉</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝜽</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.4.27)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      Contrasting the Poincar&eacute; algebra with the Lie algebra of the
      Galilean group, the symmetry group for Newtonian mechanics, offers
      fascinating insights. While it is possible to derive the Galilean
      algebra beginning with its transformation rules and using the same
      methodology we used for the Poincar&eacute; algebra, a simpler path
      exists. Since we already possess Eqs. (<a href="#2.4.18">1.4.18</a>)-(<a href="#2.4.24">1.4.24</a>),
      we can more conveniently obtain the Galilean algebra as the
      In&ouml;n&uuml;-Wigner contraction of the Poincar&eacute; algebra in the
      low-velocity limit. For a set of particles with an average mass <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>m</mi></math> and velocity <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>v</mi></math>, we
      anticipate the momentum and angular-momentum operators to be of the
      order <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝐉</mi><mo>∼</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝐏</mi><mo>∼</mo><mi>m</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>v</mi></mrow></math>.
      On the flip side, the energy operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>H</mi></math> is
      composed of a total mass <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>M</mi></math> and a non-mass
      energy <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>W</mi></math> (kinetic and potential), which are
      of the order <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>∼</mo><mi>m</mi></mrow></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>W</mi><mo>∼</mo><mi>m</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>v</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></math>.
      Examining Eqs. (<a href="#2.4.18">1.4.18</a>)-(<a href="#2.4.24">1.4.24</a>) reveals that
      in the limit where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>v</mi><mo>≪</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      the commutation relations simplify to:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><msub><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>j</mi></msub><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>M</mi><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>j</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>W</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>W</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>W</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><mi>W</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝐊</mi></math> scales as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>/</mo><mi>v</mi></mrow></math>.
      It's noteworthy that in Hilbert space, the sequence of operations
      involving a translation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>𝐚</mi></mrow></math>
      and a 'boost' <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>𝐯</mi><mi>t</mi></mrow></math>
      does not yield the expected transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>𝐱</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>𝐯</mi><mi>t</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>𝐚</mi></mrow></math>.
      Instead, we have:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>𝐊</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐯</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>𝐏</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐚</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>M</mi><mi>𝐚</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐯</mi><mo>/</mo><mn>2</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>𝐊</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐯</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐏</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐚</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      The emergence of the phase factor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>M</mi><mi>𝐚</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mi>𝐯</mi><mo>/</mo><mn>2</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> indicates that we are dealing with a
      projective representation, which comes with a superselection rule that
      precludes the mixing of states with different masses. In this aspect,
      the mathematical framework of the Poincar&eacute; group is less complex
      than that of the Galilean group. Nonetheless, it is entirely feasible to
      extend the Galilean group formally by introducing an additional
      generator to its Lie algebra. This new generator would commute with all
      existing generators and have eigenvalues corresponding to the masses of
      the different states. In such a scenario, physical states would be
      represented through an ordinary, rather than projective, representation
      of the augmented symmetry group. While this might seem like a minor
      change in notation, it effectively eliminates the necessity for a mass
      superselection rule within the reinterpreted Galilean group.
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-6">1.5<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>One-Particle States<span
    style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      <a id="Sec:2.5"></a>
    </p>
    <p>
      We turn our attention to the categorization of single-particle states
      based on their transformation properties under the inhomogeneous Lorentz
      group. 
    </p>
    <p>
      Given that the components of the energy-momentum four-vector commute
      among themselves, it is logical to represent physical state-vectors
      using eigenvectors of the four-momentum. To do this, we introduce a
      label <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> to account for any additional
      degrees of freedom, leading us to consider state-vectors <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      such that
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      For more complex states, like those comprising multiple free particles,
      the label <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> would need to accommodate both
      continuous and discrete values. In this discussion, we are focusing
      solely on one-particle states, whose definition includes that the label
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> is purely discrete. It is worth noting
      that specific bound states of two or more particles, like the ground
      state of a hydrogen atom, are also considered one-particle states in
      this context. While such states are not elementary particles, the
      distinction between composite and elementary particles is irrelevant for
      our current purposes.
    </p>
    <p>
      Equations (<a href="#2.5.1">1.5.1</a>) and (<a href="#2.4.26">1.4.26</a>) inform us about
      the transformation behavior of these states under homogeneous Lorentz
      transformations.
    </p>
    <p>
      Applying equation (<a href="#2.4.9">1.4.9</a>), we find that when a quantum
      homogeneous Lorentz transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      or equivalently <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> acts on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      it yields a four-momentum eigenvector with eigenvalue <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi></mrow></math>:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ρ</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msubsup><msup><mrow></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msup><msup><mi>P</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ρ</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.5.2)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      Therefore, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>
      must be expressible as a linear combination of state-vectors <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup></mrow></msub></math>:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msub><mi>C</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.3)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Generally, one might be able to construct suitable linear combinations
      of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      such that the matrix <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>C</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      becomes block-diagonal. In other words, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      with <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> values within a single block could
      constitute a representation of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group on their
      own. It makes sense to associate the states of a particular particle
      type with components of an irreducible representation of the
      inhomogeneous Lorentz group, meaning it can't be further broken down in
      this manner.
    </p>
    <p>
      It should be noted that different types of particles may be related to
      isomorphic representations, which means their matrices <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>C</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      could be identical or transformed into one another by a similarity
      transformation. In certain scenarios, particle types might be defined as
      irreducible representations of larger groups, which include the
      inhomogeneous proper orthochronous Lorentz group as a subgroup. For
      example, for massless particles whose interactions are invariant under
      space inversion, it's common to treat all components of an irreducible
      representation of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group as a single particle
      type.
    </p>
    <p>
      The next step in our investigation is to elucidate the structure of the
      coefficients <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>C</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      in irreducible representations of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group.
    </p>
    <p>
      For our objectives, it's crucial to recognize that the only functions of
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> left invariant by
      all proper orthochronous Lorentz transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>ν</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math>
      are the invariant square <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>≡</mo><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup></mrow></math>,
      and for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>≤</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      also the sign of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math>.
      Therefore, for each specific value of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></math>,
      and when <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>≤</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      each sign of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></math>, we
      can select a 'standard' four-momentum denoted as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>.
      Any <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> within this
      category can then be represented as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.4)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math> is a
      particular standard Lorentz transformation depending on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>
      and, implicitly, on our chosen standard <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>.
      Consequently, the states <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      having momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>p</mi></math> can be defined as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>≡</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.5)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is a numerical normalization factor,
      the specifics of which will be determined later. Up to this juncture, no
      details have been provided about how the <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math>
      labels are connected across varying momenta; Equation (<a href="#2.5.5">1.5.5</a>)
      now addresses this absence.
    </p>
    <p>
      When applying an arbitrary homogeneous Lorentz transformation <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      to equation (<a href="#2.5.5">1.5.5</a>), we obtain:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.5.6)</class><a id="2.5.6"></a></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      The purpose of this last step is to show that the Lorentz transformation
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> first maps
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>k</mi></math> to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>p</mi></mrow></math>,
      then to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi></mrow></math>, and
      finally back to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>k</mi></math>. This transformation
      belongs to a subgroup within the homogeneous Lorentz group,
      characterized by Lorentz transformations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msubsup><mi>W</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup></math> that keep
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> invariant:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>W</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.7)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This subgroup is termed the little group. For any <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>W</mi></math>
      that satisfies Equation (<a href="#2.5.7">1.5.7</a>), we find that:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.8)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      The coefficients <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>D</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> serve as a representation of the
      little group. Specifically, for any elements <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>W</mi></math> the relationship
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>W</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>W</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      is satisfied, and hence
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mi>W</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>W</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mi>'</mi></mrow></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.9)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Particularly, we can apply Equation (<a href="#2.5.8">1.5.8</a>) to the
      little-group transformation
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>≡</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.10)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      resulting in:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      or, recalling definition (<a href="#2.5.5">1.5.5</a>):
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.11)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Aside from normalization issues, the task of identifying the
      coefficients <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>C</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      in transformation rule (<a href="#2.5.3">1.5.3</a>) has now been distilled down
      to finding the representations of the little group. This technique,
      which involves deriving representations of a larger group like the
      inhomogeneous Lorentz group from the representations of its little
      group, is known as the method of induced representations.
    </p>
    <div style="margin-top: 1em; margin-bottom: 1em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="text-align: center; padding-left: 0em; padding-right: 0em"><table style="width: 100%">
            <tbody><tr>
              <td style="border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid; border-left: 0px solid"></td>
              <td style="border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid">Standard <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center; border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid; border-right: 0px solid">Little Group</td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td style="border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid">(a) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center; border-top: 1px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid; border-left: 0px solid">(b) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid; border-bottom: 0px solid; border-right: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>M</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center; border-left: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid">(c) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
              <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo
              form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>I</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td>(d) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
              <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo>,</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo
              form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>I</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td style="border-bottom: 0px solid">(e) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>N</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="border-bottom: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>N</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
              form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center; border-bottom: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr><tr>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid; border-left: 0px solid">(f) <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="border-top: 0px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo
              form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math></td>
              <td style="text-align: center; border-top: 0px solid; border-bottom: 1px solid; border-right: 0px solid"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></td>
            </tr></tbody>
          </table></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="text-align: center; padding-left: 0em; padding-right: 0em; height: 0.5em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="text-align: center; padding-left: 0em; padding-right: 0em; padding-left: 1.5em; padding-right: 1.5em"><div class="caption">
            <font size="-1"><p>
              <b>Table 1.5.1. </b><a id="auto-7"></a><a id="Tab:2.1"></a> Standard four-momenta
              and their associated little groups for different categories of
              four-momenta are discussed. In this context, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>κ</mi></math>
              represents an arbitrary positive energy, for instance, 1 eV. The
              little groups are generally straightforward to understand: <math
              xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is
              the regular three-dimensional rotation group that comprises
              Lorentz transformations which keep a zero-momentum particle
              stationary. Meanwhile, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
              and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
              are Lorentz groups in (2+1)-dimensions and (3+1)-dimensions,
              respectively. The group <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>I</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
              form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is
              the set of transformations in Euclidean geometry, which includes
              both rotations and translations in two dimensions. Its role as
              the little group for cases where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
              will be elaborated on later.
            </p></font>
          </div></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      Table <a href="#Tab:2.1">1.5.1</a> provides a suitable selection for the standard
      four-momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>
      along with the associated little group for different categories of
      four-momenta.
    </p>
    <p>
      Out of the six categories of four-momenta, only types (a), (c), and (f)
      have any recognized implications for physical states. For class (f)
      &mdash; where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>&mdash;it
      pertains to the vacuum state, which is essentially unchanged by <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
      Our subsequent discussion will be confined to cases (a) and (c), which
      correspond to particles with mass <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and massless particles, respectively.
    </p>
    <p>
      Now is an appropriate time to discuss the normalization of these states.
      Employing the standard orthonormalization procedure from quantum
      mechanics, we can select states with standard momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math>
      to be orthonormal as denoted by the equation:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐤</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.12)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      (Let me remark that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>k</mi></math> is the standard
      momentum and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></math> runs
      over all possibilities such that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></math>,
      so, for example, we can not use (<a href="#2.5.12">1.5.12</a>) to calculate <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math>.
      Also <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      are normalized such that (<a href="#2.5.12">1.5.12</a>) holds) The presence of
      the delta function arises because <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>′</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup></mrow></msub></math>
      are eigenstates of a Hermitian operator with eigenvalues <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝐤</mi></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></math>,
      respectively. As a direct outcome, the representation of the little
      group in Eqs. (<a href="#2.5.8">1.5.8</a>) and (<a href="#2.5.11">1.5.11</a>) must be
      unitary<sup></sup>.
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>D</mi><mi>†</mi></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>D</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.13)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      For <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      the little groups <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>S</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>O</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      do not possess any non-trivial finite-dimensional unitary
      representations. Hence, if there were states with a specific momentum
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> having <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      that non-trivially transform under the little group, an infinite number
      of such states would be required.
    </p>
    <p>
      Regarding the scalar products for generic momenta, the unitarity of the
      operator <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> as expressed in Eqs. (<a href="#2.5.5">1.5.5</a>)
      and (<a href="#2.5.11">1.5.11</a>) provides the following formula for the scalar
      product:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>N</mi><mo>∗</mo></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>N</mi><mo>∗</mo></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐤</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>≡</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></math>
      (Hence, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>k</mi></mrow></math>). (Let me remark that <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> here is just the one in
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      although here we use
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      This is correct as
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      which gives
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>U</mi><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      thereby getting
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>U</mi><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Since <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>p</mi></mrow></math> as
      well, the delta function <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>k</mi><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is proportional to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>. The presence of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐤</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> implies that only the coefficient when
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></math>
      matters, as otherwise the inner product vanishes. Hence, with <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>k</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      we have
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐤</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.14)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      The next step involves determining the proportionality factor that links
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>k</mi><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo>−</mo><mi>p</mi><mi>′</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      When integrating an arbitrary scalar function <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> over
      four-momenta subject to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>−</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>≥</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      (corresponding to cases (a) or (c)), the Lorentz-invariant integral
      takes the form:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>p</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>d</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>f</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>,</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt></mrow></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Here, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is the step function: <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>≥</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math> for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      When integrating over the 'mass shell' <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      the invariant volume element becomes:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>/</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.15)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      By the definition of the delta function,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>F</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><mi>F</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>-</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><mi>F</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt></mfrac><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      we find that the invariant delta function is
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mrow><mi>'</mi><mn>2</mn></mrow></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.16)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Given that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>p</mi><mi>′</mi></mrow></math> and
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>p</mi></math> are connected to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>k</mi><mi>′</mi></mrow></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>k</mi></math> through a Lorentz transformation
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>,
      we arrive at the following equation:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐤</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐤</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Consequently, the scalar product becomes:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>k</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mfrac><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.17)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      The normalization constant <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is occasionally set to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>.
      However, in doing so, one would need to account for the <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>/</mo><msup><mi>k</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mrow></math>
      term in scalar products. In this context, we will use the more common
      convention where:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>N</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>k</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mo>/</mo><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.18)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      With this choice, the scalar product simplifies to:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>p</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.19)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Next, we turn our attention to the two physically relevant cases:
      particles with mass <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and particles with zero mass.
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h3 id="auto-8">1.5.1<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Mass Positive-Definite<span
    style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h3></font>
    <p>
      In this context, the little group is represented by the
      three-dimensional rotation group. Its unitary representations can be
      decomposed into a direct sum of irreducible unitary representations,
      denoted by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>′</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>R</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, having dimensions of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>j</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>j</mi></math> takes values 0, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac></math>,
      1, etc. These representations can be constructed from the standard
      matrices for infinitesimal rotations <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>R</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>Θ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>,
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>Θ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>−</mo><msub><mi>Θ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>i</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>
      is infinitesimal. The representation is given by:
    </p>
    <div style="text-indent: 0em; margin-top: 0.5em; margin-bottom: 0.5em">
      <table style="width: 100%">
        <tbody><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msubsup><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>Θ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mi>i</mi><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msub><mi>Θ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.5.20)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>23</mn><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo>±</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>31</mn><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo>±</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi><mo>±</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msub><msqrt><mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>∓</mo><mi>σ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>±</mo><mi>σ</mi><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msqrt><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right; padding-bottom: 0.45em"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.5.21)</class></td>
        </tr><tr>
          <td style="width: 33.3333333333333%; white-space: nowrap; padding-left: 0em; text-align: right"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; text-align: center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="width: 66.6666666666667%; white-space: nowrap; text-align: center; text-align: left"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>12</mn><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msubsup><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>σ</mi><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
          <td style="white-space: nowrap; padding-right: 0em; text-align: right"><class style="font-style: normal">(1.5.22)</class></td>
        </tr></tbody>
      </table>
    </div>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> varies over the set <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>j</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>j</mi><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>…</mi><mo>,</mo><mo>−</mo><mi>j</mi></mrow></math>.
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> gives the component of angular momentum
      in the three-axis. For a particle having mass <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>></mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      and spin <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>j</mi></math>, Equation (<a href="#2.5.11">1.5.11</a>)
      is transformed to:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msqrt><mfrac><msup><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mfrac></msqrt><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></munder><msubsup><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(1.5.23)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Here, the little-group element <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      &mdash; often referred to as the Wigner rotation &mdash; is given by
      Equation (<a href="#2.5.10">1.5.10</a>) as:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Let
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>γ</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><msqrt><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">|</mo><mi>𝐯</mi><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt></mfrac></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      be the Lorentz factor (w.r.t the particle with 4-momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math>). Note that the relativistic mass with
      4-momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>p</mi></math> (w.r.t the particle with
      4-momentum <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math>) is
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>M</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>γ</mi><mi>M</mi><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Hence, together with 
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>M</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>𝐯</mi><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      we can rewrite the Lorentz factor to be
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>γ</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><msqrt><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mrow><msup><mi>γ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mfrac></mrow></msqrt></mfrac><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      which gives
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>γ</mi><mo>=</mo><mfrac><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>M</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>𝐩</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></msqrt><mi>M</mi></mfrac><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Let
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mover><mi>p</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mfrac><msub><mi>p</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">|</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo form="postfix">|</mo></mrow></mfrac><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Then a choice of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> that take <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>M</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>p</mi></math>
      could be
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>k</mi></mrow><mi>i</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>γ</mi><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mover><mi>p</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mi>i</mi></msub><msub><mover><mi>p</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mi>k</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mi>i</mi></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
          &#xA0;</mtext><mi>i</mi></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><msub><mover><mi>p</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mi>i</mi></msub><msqrt><mrow><msup><mi>γ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msqrt><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msubsup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0; 
          &#xA0;</mtext><mn>0</mn></mrow><mn>0</mn></msubsup><mo>=</mo><mi>γ</mi><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Then from this we can determine the Wigner rotation and hence the
      representation with spin <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>j</mi></math>, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msubsup><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>j</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></msubsup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h3 id="auto-9">1.5.2<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Mass Zero<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h3></font>
    <p>
      Note that an infinitesimal rotation around the two-axis <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>α</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></mrow></math>
      followed by an infinitesimal boost along the one-axis <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>α</mi><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></math>
      leaves <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math> unchange as
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mover><mo>⟼</mo><mrow><mi>α</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></mrow></mover><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mover><mo>⟼</mo><mrow><mi>α</mi><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></mover><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Also an infinitesimal rotation around the two-axis <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></math>
      followed by an infinitesimal boost along the one-axis <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>β</mi><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></mrow></math>
      leaves <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></math> unchange. And clearly, an infinitesimal
      rotation around the three axis <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></math>
      leaves <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></math>.
      Hence, an infinitesimal small group transformation can be rewritten as
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>β</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mi>A</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mi>B</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>B</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      We see that the commutators for these generators are
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>A</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>B</mi><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><mo>,</mo><mi>B</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>A</mi><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">[</mo><mi>A</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>B</mi><mo
          form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Hence, we simultaneously diagonalized <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math> and
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>B</mi></math> by their eigenstates <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      such that
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>A</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>a</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>B</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>b</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      However, if one of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>a</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>b</mi></math>
      is not zero, then we can find a continuum of spectrum of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math>
      and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>B</mi></math>, i.e.
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>-</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>sin</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>B</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>sin</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo>+</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>b</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
      columnalign="center center center center">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>sin</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>sin</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mi>θ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      which contradicts to our assumption that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math>
      is of discrete (experiment does not find a continuum of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math>
      for one-particle states). Hence, for physical states, we must have
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>a</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      (For the case when <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>a</mi><mo>≠</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      or <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>b</mi><mo>≠</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      see arXiv:1302.1198.) Hence, for a physical state <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      we must have
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>A</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>B</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Here <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> is assumed to be the eigenvalue of
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></math> (now that <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>a</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is a common eigenstate for both <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math>, <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>B</mi></math>, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></math>,
      although neither <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>A</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></math>
      commute nor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>B</mi></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></math>),
      such that
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mi>σ</mi><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Note that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>𝐤</mi></math> is in the three-axis, <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> gives the component of angular momentum in the
      direction of motion. <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>σ</mi></math> is called the
      <em>helicity</em>.
    </p>
    <p>
      We are now ready to find the representation of the little group.
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>β</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mi>A</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mi>B</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Hence,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>D</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>β</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>δ</mi><mrow><msup><mi>σ</mi><mi>'</mi></msup><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Therefore,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msqrt><mfrac><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mn>0</mn></msup><msup><mi>p</mi><mn>0</mn></msup></mfrac></msqrt><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>σ</mi><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is determined by
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mi>A</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mi>B</mi></mrow></msup><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Instead of unitary operator acting on the Hilbert space, we prefer using
      the following Lorentz transformation identity.
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>W</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mi>exp</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">[</mo><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo form="postfix">]</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>2</mn></mfrac><msup><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mrow><mn>3</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><msup><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>ζ</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>?</mo><mi>S</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mi>α</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>β</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>α</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>β</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>β</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>ζ</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      On the other hand,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mi>θ</mi><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mn>2</mn></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mn>3</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mn>4</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>+</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>5</mn></msup><mrow><mn>5</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>6</mn></msup><mrow><mn>6</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>+</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>θ</mi><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mn>3</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>5</mn></msup><mrow><mn>5</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mn>2</mn></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mn>4</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mo>-</mo><mfrac><msup><mi>θ</mi><mn>6</mn></msup><mrow><mn>6</mn><mo>!</mo></mrow></mfrac><mo>+</mo><mi>⋯</mi><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>-</mo><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>θ</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>θ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Therefore,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right center left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>α</mi><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mi>β</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>1</mn></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>K</mi><mn>2</mn></msub><mo
          form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><mstyle
          scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>ζ</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mi>ζ</mi></mrow></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo
          form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
              <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
          columnalign="center center center center">
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
              <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
            </mtr>
          </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mi>.</mi></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Hence,
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msup><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>Λ</mi><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle
      scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable columnalign="center center center center">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>α</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mi>α</mi></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>cos</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mi>β</mi></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>α</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>β</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>α</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>β</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mn>2</mn></mfrac></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where we choose
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>L</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>p</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>B</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">|</mo><mi>𝐩</mi><mo
      form="postfix">|</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      to take <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>κ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>p</mi></math>,
      where
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>B</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>u</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mstyle scriptlevel="1"><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mtable
      columnalign="center center center center">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>1</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>u</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>u</mi></mrow></mfrac></mtd>
          <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>u</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>u</mi></mrow></mfrac></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd>
          <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>u</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>u</mi></mrow></mfrac></mtd>
          <mtd><mfrac><mrow><msup><mi>u</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><mrow><mn>2</mn><mi>u</mi></mrow></mfrac></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mstyle></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      is a pure boost along the three-direction and
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>ϕ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>3</mn></msub></mrow></msup><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>θ</mi><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>2</mn></msub></mrow></msup></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      with
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mover><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mi>cos</mi><mi>ϕ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>sin</mi><mi>θ</mi><mi>sin</mi><mi>ϕ</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>cos</mi><mi>θ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>R</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mover><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is a pure rotation that takes the
      three axis into the direction of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mover><mi>𝐩</mi><mo>&Hat;</mo></mover></math>.
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h1 id="auto-10"><a id="Chap:8"></a>Chapter 2<br />Quantum
    Electrodynamics</h1></font>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-11">2.1<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Gauge Invariance<a id="Sec:8.1"></a><span
    style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      In constructing covariant free fields for massless particles with
      helicity <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>±</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math> (such as
      photons), one encounters a significant complication; see Section <a
      href="#Sec:5.9">?</a>. A field like the four-potential <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, as given by
      Eq. (<a href="#5.9.23">?</a>), while commonly used, does not transform as a true
      four-vector under Lorentz transformations. This presents a problem when
      attempting to write a Lorentz-covariant quantum field theory. But before
      diving into this issue, let's recall that we can define an antisymmetric
      tensor field <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> for massless
      spin-1 particles without difficulty. This tensor field is related to the
      four-potential <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>a&mu;(x) via
      the well-known expression (just as in classical electromagnetism):
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      However, as shown in Eq. (<a href="#5.9.31">?</a>), the four-potential <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> does not transform purely as a
      four-vector under Lorentz transformations; rather, it transforms as a
      four-vector only up to a gauge transformation. That is, under a Lorentz
      transformation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>Λ</mi></math>, the field transforms
      according to
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>U</mi><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>Λ</mi><mi>μ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msubsup><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mi>Ω</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>Ω</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>Λ</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> is a function that depends on the
      coordinates and the Lorentz transformation, and represents the gauge
      freedom inherent in the theory. This additional gradient term reflects
      the non-covariant behavior of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> under
      Lorentz transformations, a key feature of massless vector fields like
      the photon. The implication here is profound: even though the field
      strength <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> itself does
      transform covariantly (since it is gauge-invariant), the potential <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> does not. This is a manifestation of
      the gauge redundancy present in theories of massless spin-1 fields, such
      as quantum electrodynamics (QED).
    </p>
    <p>
      In the case of massless spin-1 particles, such as photons, a significant
      structural limitation arises when attempting to construct covariant
      quantum fields. Specifically, it is impossible to build a true Lorentz
      four-vector field as a linear combination of creation and annihilation
      operators associated only with helicity <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>±</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      states. This stands in sharp contrast to the situation for massive
      spin-1 particles, where the field operator &mdash; such as the Proca
      field &mdash; can be constructed from the full set of polarization
      states <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>λ</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>,
      and transforms properly as a four-vector under Lorentz transformations.
    </p>
    <p>
      The key issue is that, for massless particles, only the transverse
      polarizations with helicities <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>±</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      correspond to physical states. The longitudinal polarization vector,
      which is essential in the massive case for forming a complete Lorentz
      vector, becomes unphysical as the mass goes to zero. Although the
      longitudinal component contributes to the field operator of the massive
      theory, it ultimately decouples from physical matrix elements due to
      current conservation. However, this decoupling does not remove its
      mathematical role in ensuring the Lorentz covariance of the field
      operator. Therefore, when taking the massless limit <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>m</mi><mo>→</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      one cannot simply discard the longitudinal mode without losing the
      ability to maintain manifest Lorentz covariance.
    </p>
    <p>
      This fact manifests clearly in the propagator of a massive vector field.
      The propagator for the Proca field takes the form:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Δ</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>,</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>π</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>4</mn></mrow></msup><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>q</mi><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><msup><mn>e</mn><mrow><mn>&ImaginaryI;</mn><mi>q</mi><mi>⋅</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><mfrac><mrow><msub><mi>η</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>/</mo><msup><mi>m</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mrow><msup><mi>q</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>m</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>-</mo><mn>&ImaginaryI;</mn><mi>ε</mi></mrow></mfrac><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      and one immediately sees that the second term in the numerator of the
      integrand becomes singular as <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>m</mi><mo>→</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>.
      This divergence is not merely a technical problem; it reflects a deeper
      physical truth: the longitudinal component required to complete the
      four-vector structure becomes ill-defined in the massless limit. In
      other words, the theory does not admit a smooth transition from the
      massive to the massless case at the level of the covariant field
      operator.
    </p>
    <p>
      The underlying reason for this difficulty lies in the representation
      theory of the Poincar&eacute; group. For massive particles, the little
      group is <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>SO</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, and one can build covariant fields
      corresponding to finite-dimensional irreducible representations. In
      contrast, for massless particles, the little group is <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ISO</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mn>2</mn><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, which
      includes not only helicity (rotations around the direction of motion)
      but also &ldquo;translations&rdquo; in the plane transverse to the
      momentum. These translation-like generators do not act trivially on the
      polarization vectors and correspond to gauge transformations in
      field-theoretic language. As a result, any attempt to construct a
      covariant field from only helicity eigenstates necessarily introduces
      gauge redundancy: the field can at best transform covariantly up to a
      gauge transformation.
    </p>
    <p>
      This explains why the four-potential <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, though
      commonly used, does not transform as a true four-vector. Instead, under
      Lorentz transformations, it picks up an additional gradient term &mdash;
      a manifestation of gauge freedom. This is a direct reflection of the
      impossibility of representing helicity <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>±</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></math>
      states within a true vector representation of the Lorentz group. The
      singularity in the propagator at <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>m</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>
      is thus not an artifact of poor regularization or bad limits, but a
      genuine structural signal: it tells us that the massless theory must be
      formulated differently &mdash; not through a Proca-like field, but via
      gauge fields with constrained degrees of freedom, such as in quantum
      electrodynamics.
    </p>
    <p>
      We could avoid the complications arising from the non-covariant
      transformation properties of the gauge potential <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> by imposing
      a strong constraint on the form of the theory: namely, that all
      interactions should involve only the field strength tensor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> (We use
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      instead of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>a</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> and
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>f</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      for the eletromagnetic potential vector and the field strength tensor
      because these are interacting fields.) and its derivatives, and not
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> itself. Since <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is manifestly gauge invariant under the transformation
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>→</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mi>ε</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.2)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      a theory built entirely from <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and its derivatives would automatically be invariant under gauge
      transformations. It would also avoid the problem that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, as
      discussed earlier (see Eq. (<a href="#5.9.31">?</a>)), transforms only up to a
      gauge term under Lorentz transformations.
    </p>
    <p>
      However, such a restriction would be overly rigid &mdash; it does not
      describe the most general class of interactions, and crucially, it is
      not the structure realized in nature. Physical theories such as quantum
      electrodynamics (QED) include interaction terms where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> appears
      explicitly, as in the minimal coupling term
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mover><mi>ψ</mi><mo>&OverBar;</mo></mover><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msup><mi>γ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>ψ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      which cannot be written purely in terms of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>.
      For this reason, we do not banish <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> from the
      theory. Instead, we retain <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> as a
      dynamical variable, and impose a compensating symmetry requirement: that
      the matter action, which includes the matter fields and their
      interaction with the gauge field, must be invariant under general gauge
      transformations of the form (<a href="#8.1.3">2.1.2</a>) at least when the
      matter fields obey their equations of motion.
    </p>
    <p>
      This approach ensures that the unphysical degrees of freedom associated
      with the gauge redundancy in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> do not
      affect physical observables, even though <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> itself is
      not gauge invariant. If we allow <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> to shift by
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msup><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>&part;&mu;&#x03F5;(x),
      then the variation of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      is given formally by:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>x</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>x</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mi>ε</mi><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>&ApplyFunction;</mo><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.3)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This expression arises from a general principle in field theory: when a
      functional depends on a field <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, its
      variation under a change in that field is obtained by integrating the
      functional derivative times the variation of the field.
    </p>
    <p>
      To proceed, we apply integration by parts to this expression, under the
      assumption that <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> vanishes sufficiently rapidly at
      infinity so that boundary terms can be neglected. This gives:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>x</mi><mi>ε</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      For the action to be gauge invariant, i.e., for <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></math>,
      we need
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.4)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      This is a condition imposed not on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, which is
      arbitrary, but on the structure of the action itself. It ensures that
      even though <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> transforms
      inhomogeneously under gauge transformations, the matter action remains
      invariant. The significance of this condition will become clearer
      shortly, once we interpret <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac></math> as
      the source current for the gauge field.
    </p>
    <p>
      In special cases, this condition is trivially satisfied. For example, if
      the matter action <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      depends only on the gauge-invariant tensor <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, and not on
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> itself, then the functional derivative
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac></math> can
      be computed explicitly using the chain rule:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>y</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>⋅</mi><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Using <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>σ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, we vary
      each term with respect to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>. By
      definition of functional differentiation, <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>α</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>α</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo
      form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>. When a derivative acts on the field,
      the corresponding functional derivative produces a derivative of the
      delta function: <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>σ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>σ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>y</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      and similarly <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi></msub><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ρ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>y</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>.
      Subtracting these gives
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>σ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi><mi>y</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi><mi>y</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Substituting this back into the chain rule and collecting indices, we
      obtain
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mo>d</mo><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>y</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">[</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi><mi>y</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi><mi>y</mi></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo
      form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      We now integrate by parts in <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>y</mi></math>, moving
      derivatives off the delta functions and onto the functional derivatives;
      surface terms vanish under standard boundary conditions. Using <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>∫</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mi>y</mi><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>g</mi><mrow><mo form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><msubsup><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi><mrow><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>y</mi></mrow></msubsup><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><mi>g</mi><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>, the two
      terms become
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Because <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      is antisymmetric, the functional derivative <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>
      is also antisymmetric: <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mtext>&#xA0;
      &#xA0;</mtext><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>/</mo><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub></mrow></math>.
      Using this antisymmetry to relabel indices, the two terms add to the
      same structure and we arrive at
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.5)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Thus, the functional derivative of the action with respect to <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> is given by the
      divergence of a quantity. Taking another divergence yields:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      Therefore, if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      depends only on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>,
      the condition in Eq. (<a href="#8.1.4">2.1.4</a>) is satisfied automatically
      &ndash; gauge invariance is guaranteed by construction. Moreover, Eq.
      (<a href="#8.1.5">2.1.5</a>) is also true when <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      depends only on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>
      and its derivatives. But we omit the calculations.
    </p>
    <p>
      However, if <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      involves <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math> itself, the
      expression <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac></math> will
      generally not be a total derivative, and hence the vanishing of its
      divergence becomes a non-trivial constraint. In such theories, gauge
      invariance imposes a dynamical condition on the form of the interaction
      between matter and gauge fields &mdash; one that is often interpreted
      (in later steps) as the conservation of a physical current.
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      the variation <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac></math>
      involves derivatives of delta functions, leading to:
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mi>σ</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>σ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>-</mo><msubsup><mi>δ</mi><mi>ρ</mi><mi>μ</mi></msubsup><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>σ</mi></msub><msup><mi>δ</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mn>2</mn><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mrow><mo
      form="prefix">(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      
    </p>
    <p>
      A broad class of theories yielding a conserved current arises from an
      internal global symmetry acting on matter fields <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></math>:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi><mrow><mtext>(no
        summation over
        &#xA0;</mtext><mi>ℓ</mi><mtext>)</mtext></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.6)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      When <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mi>ϵ</mi></math> is constant, the action is
      invariant; promoting <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>→</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></math>
      gives
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.7)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      so on the equations of motion the current is conserved,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.8)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      The corresponding generator acts on fields as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow><mo>[</mo><mi>Q</mi><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.9)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      with time-independent conserved charge
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>Q</mi><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.10)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Coupling the conserved current to a vector field gives a
      Lorentz-invariant theory if we choose the normalization
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mfrac><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.11)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      which fixes the overall charge units (a common rescaling of all <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></math> can be absorbed into
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>).
    </p>
    <p>
      Equation (<a href="#eq:8.1.11">2.1.11</a>) is equivalent to the invariance of the
      matter action under the <em>local</em> transformations
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mtable columnalign="right left">
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><mtext>(2.1.12)</mtext></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
        <mtr>
          <mtd><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></mtd>
          <mtd><mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><mtext>(2.1.13)</mtext></mrow></mtd>
        </mtr>
      </mtable></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      i.e. gauge invariance of the second kind (the first kind refers to the
      global case).
    </p>
    <p>
      For the gauge field itself we take the standard Maxwell action,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>γ</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>4</mn></msup><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>≡</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.14)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      which (up to normalization and total derivatives, and with at most two
      derivatives) is the unique local, gauge-invariant quadratic functional
      of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>.
      Varying the total action <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>I</mi><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>γ</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow></math>
      with respect to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub></math>
      gives the inhomogeneous Maxwell equations,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mi>δ</mi><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>ν</mi></msub></mrow></mfrac><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo>[</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>γ</mi></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mi>I</mi><mi>M</mi></msub><mo>]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mi>ν</mi></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.15)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      together with the homogeneous Bianchi identity,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mn>0</mn><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ν</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ρ</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ρ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>ν</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>ρ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>μ</mi></mrow></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.16)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      It is often convenient to <em>derive</em> gauge interactions by
      &ldquo;localizing&rdquo; a global symmetry. Starting from the global
      transformation
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.17)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      we promote it to
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.18)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      If the matter Lagrangian depended only on the fields (no derivatives),
      global invariance would imply local invariance automatically. With
      derivatives present, the transformation of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></mrow></math>
      acquires an extra term:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">(</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.19)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      To cancel the inhomogeneous piece proportional to <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi></mrow></math>,
      introduce a gauge field <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>
      transforming as
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.20)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      and define the covariant derivative
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>D</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>≡</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo
        form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.1.21)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      for which <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mi>δ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo>(</mo><msub><mi>D</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ϵ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>D</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></mrow></math>
      transforms homogeneously. Replacing all <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>
      by <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>D</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math> in <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>L</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math> and adding the gauge
      kinetic term (<a href="#eq:8.1.14">2.1.14</a>) yields a locally gauge-invariant
      electrodynamics with universal minimal coupling (<a href="#eq:8.1.11">2.1.11</a>);
      the equations of motion are (<a href="#eq:8.1.15">2.1.15</a>)&ndash;(<a href="#eq:8.1.16">2.1.16</a>).
    </p>
    <font color="#008080"><h2 id="auto-12">2.2<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span>Constraints and Gauge
    Conditions<span style="margin-left: 1em"></span></h2></font>
    <p>
      In canonical quantization of electrodynamics we meet obstructions absent
      for massive vector theories. As usual, define the canonical momentum
      conjugate to the four-potential:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Π</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>≡</mo><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>L</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo>(</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.1)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Naively one would impose canonical equal-time commutators, but
      electrodynamics carries constraints, so the naive set is inconsistent.
    </p>
    <p>
      The <em>primary constraint</em> follows because the Lagrangian has no
      time derivative of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub></math>:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>Π</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mtext>x</mtext><mo>,</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.2)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      A <em>secondary constraint</em> arises from the Euler&ndash;Lagrange
      equations subject to the primary one. Using <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></mrow></math>
      and the matter coupling, one finds
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Π</mi><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>i</mi></msub><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>L</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></msub></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>L</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub></mrow></mfrac><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.3)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msup><mi>J</mi><mi>μ</mi></msup></math> is the
      conserved matter current. In terms of canonical matter variables <math
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>{</mo><msub><mi>Q</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo>}</mo></mrow></math>
      (collecting all charged fields <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></math>
      with charges <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub></math>),
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><mi>ℓ</mi></munder><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>L</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo>(</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>=</mo><mo>-</mo><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><munder><mo>&Sum;</mo><mi>n</mi></munder><msub><mi>P</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Q</mi><mi>n</mi></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.4)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Differentiating the field equations and using current conservation
      yields the identity
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mo>∂</mo><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo
        form="prefix">[</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>i</mi></msub><mfrac><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>L</mi></mrow><mrow><mo>∂</mo><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></msub></mrow></mfrac><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mo
        form="postfix">]</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.5)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      which shows that if the secondary constraint holds at one time, it holds
      for all times. Thus <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub></math>
      is not a dynamical degree of freedom.
    </p>
    <p>
      Because the theory has a local gauge symmetry, we cannot determine a
      unique evolution from initial data unless we <em>fix a gauge</em> by a
      finite transformation
    </p>
    <center>
      <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>→</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>+</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>μ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>λ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>→</mo><msup><mi>e</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>q</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>λ</mi><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow></msup><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>Ψ</mi><mi>ℓ</mi></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>,</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
    </center>
    <p>
      and then impose a condition on <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>
      (examples: Lorenz, Coulomb, temporal, axial, unitary gauges). For
      canonical work it is convenient to adopt the Coulomb gauge,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>∇</mo><mo>⋅</mo><mrow><mrow><mtext>A</mtext></mrow></mrow><mo>=</mo><mn>0</mn><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.6)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      In the common class of theories where <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>L</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></math>
      depends on matter fields, their time-derivatives, and <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>
      but not on derivatives of <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mi>μ</mi></msub></math>,
      the only <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub></math>-dependence
      is the photon kinetic term <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>μ</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>ν</mi></mrow></msup></mrow></math>.
      Then the secondary constraint (<a href="#eq:8.2.3">2.2.3</a>) is just Gauss's law,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>-</mo><msub><mo>∂</mo><mi>i</mi></msub><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msup><mi>F</mi><mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></msup><mo>=</mo><msup><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msup><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.7)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Together with (<a href="#eq:8.2.6">2.2.6</a>) this yields the Poisson equation for
      the nondynamical scalar potential,
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><mo>-</mo><msup><mo>∇</mo><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mo>=</mo><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.8)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      Thus <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub></math> is determined
      instantaneously by the charge density:
    </p>
    <table width="100%">
      <tr>
        <td width="100%" align="center"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mstyle displaystyle="true"><mrow><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mtext>x</mtext><mo>,</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo>=</mo><mo>&Integral;</mo><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup><mrow><mrow><mtext>y</mtext></mrow></mrow><mfrac><mrow><msub><mi>J</mi><mn>0</mn></msub><mrow><mo>(</mo><mtext>y</mtext><mo>,</mo><mi>t</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mrow><mrow><mn>4</mn><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mi>π</mi><mo>&InvisibleTimes;</mo><mrow><mo>|</mo><mtext>x</mtext><mo>-</mo><mtext>y</mtext><mo>|</mo></mrow></mrow></mfrac><mi>.</mi></mrow></mstyle></math></td>
        <td align="right">(2.2.9)</td>
      </tr>
    </table>
    <p>
      After fixing (<a href="#eq:8.2.6">2.2.6</a>) the remaining independent degrees of
      freedom are the transverse <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mtext>A</mtext></math>
      components, while <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><msub><mi>A</mi><mn>0</mn></msub></math>
      is an auxiliary field algebraically fixed by (<a href="#eq:8.2.9">2.2.9</a>).
    </p>
  </body>
</html>